Scale up neural networks to process vey large images/video sequences (with sparse connections and parameter sharing)
Auto generalizes across spatial translations of input (good for pictures)
Key Idea of Convlutional Neural Networks
- replace matrix multiplication in neural nets with convolution

See 2D convolution in book (figure 9.1)
Why convolution? : 
	- like matrix multiplication (take an input, produce an output (hidden layer))
	- "deconvolution": like multiplication by transpose of matrix
		- used to reduce noise. back-propagate error from output to input.

Edge detection by Convolution (Figure 9.6)
Kernel is filter applied to image

Convolutional Network Components (Figure 9.7)
Pass to activation function (Detector stage)
Pooling stage (downsize, reduces dimension)

Stride (idea of how much convolution is going to shift. shifting more than one space see figure 9.1) (convolution can be very slow if only moving one space)

Look up deep learning videos

Zero padding (adding zero at ends, if need to multiply items that don't have any matches)

Gabor Functions/filters (Figure 9.18) mammals have way of looking (in brain) of seeing with different filters. Rotating angle of filter, or making narrower/wider. (in face recog, if tilted face, wouldn't recog)

Gabor-like Learned Kernels (Figure 9.19)

Major Arcitectures
- spatial transducer net: input size scales with output size, all layers are convolutional (google this)
- all convolutional net: no pooling layers, just use strided convolution to shrink representation size
- inception: complicated architecture designed to achieve high accuracy with low computational cost
- resnet: blocks of layers with same spatial size, with each layer's output added to the same buffer that is repeatedly updated. very many updates = very deep net, but without vanishing gradient. (each layer has its own update. some parts unsupervised)

Homework: have to do convolutional neural network training on NIST data set.
run 1st time as configured. write time, accuracy. how long it took, performance.
mess with size of convolutional filters, did it take longer? better/accuracy?
